<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-3" id="chapter-3-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
			<p>About nine o’clock Carillo put his head in the door. Downstairs the jazz band had just started to play.</p>
			<p>“Well?” demanded Vettori, getting to his feet.</p>
			<p>“Blackie wants to see you,” said Carillo.</p>
			<p>“All right.”</p>
			<p>Carillo went out.</p>
			<p>“What you suppose he wants?” said Vettori.</p>
			<p>Rico, who was sitting with his chair tipped back against the wall reading a magazine, shook his head without looking up or answering. He was deep in the reading of a story about a rich society girl who fell in love with a bootlegger. Rico read everything he could find that had anything to do with society. He was fascinated by a stratum of existence which seemed so remote and unreal to him.</p>
			<p>Blackie Avezzano, who managed Sam’s garage, came in and shut the door behind him. He was small and bowlegged, and he was so dark that he had been taken for a mulatto many times.</p>
			<p>Vettori impatiently exclaimed:</p>
			<p>“Well, what’s on your mind, Blackie?”</p>
			<p>Rico went on reading his magazine. Blackie sat down at the table and seemed to be making an effort to collect his thoughts.</p>
			<p>“All right, spit it out,” said Vettori.</p>
			<p>Blackie couldn’t speak very good English, but as Rico didn’t know a word of Italian and Vettori preferred to speak English, he did the best he could.</p>
			<p>“Tony, he took sick. Listen, I tell you, Tony he no know what. He took sick. I see him, listen, I tell you, what-you-say, he no got his guts. The Madre she send me call the doctore. Listen, he say, Tony, what-you-say, you been a drink. Now listen, you cut out a drink. That’s all. Tony he no drink. What a hell! One bottle of beer he can no drink. He no got his guts, that’s all.”</p>
			<p>Vettori looked at Rico, who went on reading.</p>
			<p>“Rico,” he said.</p>
			<p>“I heard him,” said Rico, “I ain’t deaf.”</p>
			<p>Blackie got up and stood twisting his cap in his hand. Vettori took out his billfold and handed Blackie a ten.</p>
			<p>“Blackie,” he said, “keep your eyes open, understand?”</p>
			<p>“All right,” said Blackie, “I watch, see, I know. Tony no good. All right, I watch.”</p>
			<p>When he had gone Rico said:</p>
			<p>“Well, that’s that.”</p>
			<p>“We can’t take no chances,” said Vettori.</p>
			<p>“I’ll give him till tomorrow,” said Rico; “he can’t go far wrong with Blackie watching him. After that if he don’t settle down there won’t be no more Tony.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
