<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-7" id="chapter-7-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
			<p>Rico was acutely conscious of his position. A lonely Youngstown yegg in a hostile city without friends or influence. Yeah, funny! Just a no-account yap in a burg like Hammond and not four months ago he had been a big guy in a big burg.</p>
			<p>He put on his ulster and went out. The wind was cold and it was snowing. He walked around for a while, keeping to the dark streets, then, chilled through, he went into a little Italian restaurant for a cup of coffee and a sandwich.</p>
			<p>The waiter, an Italian boy with a handsome dark face, brought Rico his food. When he set it down on the table he grinned and said:</p>
			<p>“Well, happy New Year.”</p>
			<p>Rico looked up in surprise.</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” he said, “thanks.”</p>
			<p>He felt better. This anonymous friendliness cheered him up. While he was eating, he watched the Italian boy, who was wiping off the counter and singing.</p>
			<p>“Nice kid,” thought Rico.</p>
			<p>When Rico had finished his coffee, he lit a cigarette and sat smoking. He felt comfortable. Looking around the restaurant, he saw that there was a mechanical piano up front. Like Pete’s!</p>
			<p>“Say,” he called, “let’s have a little music.”</p>
			<p>“Sure,” said the boy.</p>
			<p>He put a slug in the piano. It played “<span epub:type="se:name.music.song">Farewell to Thee</span>” in tremolo. Rico felt sad. He called the boy back and gave him a dollar.</p>
			<p>“Keep the change, kid,” he said.</p>
			<p>The mechanical piano stopped on a discord, and Rico got to his feet. While he was putting on his coat two men came in the front door. One of them went up to the counter and ordered a cup of coffee, but the other stopped and stood staring at Rico.</p>
			<p>Rico, noticing the man’s scrutiny, put his hand inside his coat and started out, but the man touched him on the shoulder and whispered:</p>
			<p>“Things ain’t going so good, are they, Rico?”</p>
			<p>Rico stared at the man and demanded:</p>
			<p>“Who the hell are you?”</p>
			<p>Then he recognized him. It was Little Arnie’s doorman, Joseph Pavlovsky, one of the guys he had chased.</p>
			<p>“I’m one of Arnie’s boys,” said Pavlovsky; “I been in Hammond ever since you gave us the rush.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah?” said Rico.</p>
			<p>“Straight,” said Pavlovsky. “I been in the beer racket over here and I cleaned up. I’m going back to the big burg next month.”</p>
			<p>Rico envied him.</p>
			<p>“Yeah?” said Rico.</p>
			<p>“You sure pulled one on ’em, Rico,” said Pavlovsky; “you always was a smart boy, Rico.”</p>
			<p>“Aw, can that,” said Rico, and, pulling away from Pavlovsky, he went out.</p>
			<p>The wind was blowing hard now and it had stopped snowing. Rico turned up his coat collar and started toward Sansotta’s. But he hadn’t gone half a block when he realized that he was being followed. He turned just in time to see two men pass under an archlight.</p>
			<p>“It’s Little Arnie’s boy,” he said, “looking for seven grand.” Rico took out his gun, got behind a telephone pole and fired a warning shot. The two men ran for cover and Rico ducked down an alley, ran for two blocks, then turned up another alley and doubled back. He had lost them.</p>
			<p>When the lookout let him in he said:</p>
			<p>“Louis, the boss wants to see you.”</p>
			<p>Rico went up to Sansotta’s room.</p>
			<p>“Well?” he said to Sansotta.</p>
			<p>“Cesare,” said Sansotta, “a friend of mine is pulling out for Toledo tomorrow night. He’ll take you for fifty bucks.”</p>
			<p>“What’s his game?”</p>
			<p>“Running dope.”</p>
			<p>“It’s OK with me,” said Rico.</p>
			<p>Rico went up to his room, took off his overcoat, and flung himself down on the bed. He’d have to pull out now whether he wanted to or not.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
