<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-3" id="chapter-3-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h2>
			<p>When Rico came in, Seal Skin was sitting in a chair by the window and Otero was lying on the bed without his shirt, singing loudly. Rico walked over and put his hand on Seal Skin’s shoulder.</p>
			<p>“Listen,” he said, “I thought you told me you was gonna look after The Greek?”</p>
			<p>“I can’t do nothing with him,” said Seal Skin.</p>
			<p>Rico went over to the bed and looked at Otero.</p>
			<p>“Senõr Rico,” cried Otero, “listen, I will sing for you.” Rico turned.</p>
			<p>“Seal,” he said, “that bird’s gonna spill something if you don’t keep him sober.”</p>
			<p>“Listen,” said Seal Skin. “I ain’t no nurse. A guy ought to look out for himself. What the hell can I do, anyway? I can’t knock him cold.”</p>
			<p>“You never did have much sense,” said Rico.</p>
			<p>“All right, wise boy. Let’s see what you can do.”</p>
			<p>Rico took off his overcoat.</p>
			<p>“Got any ice?”</p>
			<p>“Sure,” said Seal Skin without moving.</p>
			<p>“Well, goddamn it, get on your feet and get it.”</p>
			<p>Seal Skin was afraid of Rico but she didn’t want him to suspect it. She got to her feet leisurely, picked up one of Otero’s big cigars, lit it, and stood puffing. Then, having demonstrated her lack of fear, she went to the kitchen for the ice.</p>
			<p>Rico went over to the bed.</p>
			<p>“Otero,” he said, “have you got any liquor around here?”</p>
			<p>“What do I care for liquor!” cried Otero. “I will sing for you.” Rico slapped Otero’s face.</p>
			<p>“A hell of a crew I’m mixed up with,” he said.</p>
			<p>Otero looked at him, startled.</p>
			<p>“What is wrong with me?”</p>
			<p>“You’re a dirty yellow bum.”</p>
			<p>“I am not a yellow bum,” cried Otero, trying to sit up.</p>
			<p>Rico struck him hard this time, knocking him back on the bed. Otero put his hand to his face and looked at Rico.</p>
			<p>“If you got any more liquor here you better tell me where it is,” said Rico.</p>
			<p>Otero reached under his pillow and pulled out a quart bottle over half full. Rico slipped it into his pocket.</p>
			<p>Otero’s face grew red.</p>
			<p>“Rico,” he said, “you give me back my liquor.”</p>
			<p>He tried to sit up, but Rico hit him and he fell back. Seal Skin came in with a couple of pieces of ice wrapped in a towel.</p>
			<p>“What the hell you want to beat him up for?” she said.</p>
			<p>“I’m gonna get him sober and keep him that way.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah? Well, you’re gonna have a full-time job.”</p>
			<p>Rico took the ice, a piece in each hand, and began to rub it over Otero’s face and chest. He rubbed hard and it hurt Otero, who struggled.</p>
			<p>“Rico,” he said, “what have I done to you? Rico, you are my friend. Why do you treat me this way?”</p>
			<p>“He’ll be bawling next,” said Seal Skin.</p>
			<p>Suddenly, Otero became very angry and struggled so fiercely that he threw Rico off and climbed out of bed. The ice clattered to the floor. Rico took one step towards him and set himself for a punch, but Seal Skin grabbed his arm.</p>
			<p>“For God’s sake let up on him,” she cried, “ain’t he in bad enough shape?”</p>
			<p>Rico was furious. He slapped Seal Skin across the face with his open hand.</p>
			<p>“A fine bunch of yellow bellies and squealers I’m mixed up with,” he cried. “Listen, idiot, ain’t he a meal ticket? You want the black wagon to come and haul him away?”</p>
			<p>Otero reeled across the room. Rico leapt after him and knocked him to the floor. Otero raised his head.</p>
			<p>“Rico,” he said, “what have I done to you?”</p>
			<p>Rico picked up the ice and kneeling down beside Otero began to rub him with it, harder than before. Otero gasped.</p>
			<p>“Listen,” said Rico, “you got to get sober. I’m your friend, Otero, do you get what I’m saying? You got to sober up and stay that way.”</p>
			<p>Tears ran down Otero’s cheeks.</p>
			<p>“All right, Rico,” he said.</p>
			<p>In half an hour, Rico had him sober. Seal Skin was sitting with her feet on the window sill, smoking one of Otero’s big cigars. Otero sat pale and shaken, looking at Rico.</p>
			<p>“Well, big boy,” said Seal Skin, “I got to hand it to you. You done it.”</p>
			<p>Rico smiled. Then he took out his billfold and handed Seal Skin a ten.</p>
			<p>“There’s a little cush for you. You ain’t sore at me cause I socked you, are you? I got red hot mad, that’s all.”</p>
			<p>“You didn’t sock me hard,” said Seal Skin, “but it was ten dollars’ worth.”</p>
			<p>Otero didn’t have much to say. He sat looking at the floor, ashamed of himself.</p>
			<p>“How do you feel?” asked Rico.</p>
			<p>“Me, not so good,” said Otero.</p>
			<p>“Want a little drink?”</p>
			<p>Otero looked at Rico, not trusting him, then he nodded. Rico handed him the bottle.</p>
			<p>“I said little drink,” cautioned Rico.</p>
			<p>Otero took a swallow and handed back the bottle.</p>
			<p>“Now,” said Rico, “get your clothes on and we’ll take a look at Tony.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
