<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-7" id="chapter-7-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
			<p>Rico went up the alley at the side of Sansotta’s place and knocked at the back door. It was a long time before somebody came and took a look at him through the shutter. A voice with a marked Italian accent said:</p>
			<p>“Who are you?”</p>
			<p>“Where’s Sansotta?” asked Rico.</p>
			<p>“What do you care?”</p>
			<p>“Listen, buddy,” said Rico, “don’t get all het up. I’m right. Go tell Sansotta that Cesare wants him.”</p>
			<p>In a few minutes the door opened and a hand motioned for Rico to come in. The hall was dark and Rico stumbled going up the stairs. The look-out took hold of his arm.</p>
			<p>“The boss’s up in his room. I’ll take you up. Where you from, buddy?”</p>
			<p>“Youngstown,” said Rico.</p>
			<p>“Where’s that?”</p>
			<p>“Over east.”</p>
			<p>The look-out led Rico down a long, dark hallway and to a door at the end of it. Lights showed over a transom. The look-out knocked three times and the door was opened. Rico went in.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Sansotta, locking the door, “here you are?”</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” said Rico.</p>
			<p>Sansotta was a small, bowlegged Italian with a dark, scarred face. He had on a striped suit, brown and red, and a stiff collar the points of which were so high that his chin rested on them. There was a big diamond stud in his shirt-front.</p>
			<p>“You must’ve got a break,” said Sansotta.</p>
			<p>Rico explained how he had got away.</p>
			<p>“Pretty nifty,” said Sansotta; “I got to hand it to you on that, Cesare.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” said Rico, “it was a good idea.”</p>
			<p>Sansotta went over to a table, opened a drawer and took out a handbill which he gave to Rico. Rico smiled.</p>
			<p>“Raised the ante, did they? Last I heard it was five grand.”</p>
			<p>Rico read the handbill over and over and stared at the Bertillon pictures.</p>
			<p>“Them pictures don’t look like me,” he said.</p>
			<p>Sansotta pursed his lips and scrutinized them.</p>
			<p>“Not since you got the tickler off. No, and you look thinner in them pictures. How long ago was they taken?”</p>
			<p>“About seven years ago.”</p>
			<p>The handbill read:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>Wanted for murder: Cesare Bandello, known as Rico, Age: 29. Height: 5 <abbr>ft.</abbr>. 5 <abbr>in.</abbr> Weight: 125. Complexion: pale. Hair: black and wavy. Eyes: light, grey or blue. His face is thin and he walks with one foot slightly turned in. Does not take up with strangers. Solitary type, morose and dangerous. Reward: $5,000, offered by management of Casa Alvarado. $2,000, offered by City of Chicago, for capture dead or alive.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Well,” said Sansotta, “where you headed for?”</p>
			<p>“I’m gonna stick around here for a while,” said Rico.</p>
			<p>“Yeah?” said Sansotta; “pretty close to trouble, ain’t it?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know,” said Rico, “they ain’t got any idea which way I went. I got a big stake and I don’t have to worry none.”</p>
			<p>“You sure went up fast over in the big burg,” said Sansotta, looking at Rico with a sort of awe.</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” said Rico, “and the hell of it was, I was just getting started. Everything was on the up and up when one of the gang turned softie. Ain’t that hell?”</p>
			<p>Rico had been very much elated over his escape from Chicago, so elated in fact that he had forgotten all about his troubles; but, now that the excitement of the escape had passed, the thought of how much he had lost struck him full force. He felt resentful.</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” said Sansotta, “that’s the way it goes. It’s a tough game. They picked up two of my men last night.”</p>
			<p>“That so?” said Rico, paying no attention.</p>
			<p>Sansotta got up.</p>
			<p>“Well, Cesare,” he said, “I got business or I’d stick around and chin with you. Want to stay here with me till things blow over?”</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” said Rico.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
