<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
			<p>When they came in Vettori was standing in the middle of the room mopping his forehead with his big white silk handkerchief. Beads of sweat stood out all over his swarthy, fat face.</p>
			<p>Rico threw the sacks on the table and began to empty his pockets.</p>
			<p>“There’s the dough,” said Rico, “looks like a good haul.”</p>
			<p>Joe sat down at the table under the green-shaded lamp without taking off his hat or coat. Otero took the riot gun from under his coat and locked it up in a cupboard. Vettori knew there was something the matter. His eyes narrowed.</p>
			<p>“Well,” he said again.</p>
			<p>“Everything was OK,” said Rico, “only I had to plug a guy.”</p>
			<p>Vettori fell down into a chair and stared out the window.</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” said Joe, trying to smile, “and the guy was Courtney.”</p>
			<p>Vettori put his head on the back of his chair and stared at the ceiling. Then he sat up suddenly and banged on the table with both fists.</p>
			<p>“Goddamn!” he cried, “what did I tell you, Rico! What did I tell you! Love of God, didn’t I tell you no gunwork?”</p>
			<p>Rico was white with rage.</p>
			<p>“Listen, Sam, you think I’m gonna let a guy pull a gat on me. What the hell! Any more of them cracks and this is my last job.” Vettori made an elaborate, tragic gesture.</p>
			<p>“Yeah, you bet this is your last job.”</p>
			<p>Joe took of his derby and put it beside him on the table. His face was dead white.</p>
			<p>“You said it,” said Joe. “They’ll get us sure for this.”</p>
			<p>Vettori shook his big head slowly from side to side.</p>
			<p>“They’ll get us dead sure for this.”</p>
			<p>Rico began to comb his hair.</p>
			<p>“Maybe you better go over and give yourself up,” he said; then dropping his sarcastic tone, “listen, how the hell they gonna get us? Why, you’re the finest bunch of yellow bastards I ever seen.”</p>
			<p>“Not me,” said Otero.</p>
			<p>Joe tried to smile.</p>
			<p>“Wait till you see the papers.”</p>
			<p>Rico came over and leaned on the table.</p>
			<p>“Listen, don’t they always play that stuff up in the papers. Courtney’s the only guy in the place that ever seen one of us before. Come on, snap out of it. And split the dough.”</p>
			<p>But Vettori sat inert, mopping his face. Suddenly he asked:</p>
			<p>“Where’s Tony?”</p>
			<p>“He’s ditching the can,” said Rico.</p>
			<p>“Suppose they pick him up?”</p>
			<p>Rico began to open the sacks.</p>
			<p>“That’ll be just too bad,” said Joe.</p>
			<p>Rico laughed.</p>
			<p>“A fine bunch of yeggs!”</p>
			<p>Vettori got to his feet in a fury.</p>
			<p>“You, Rico! Shut your mouth. You think I want to hang because you get yellow and shoot somebody.”</p>
			<p>Rico, very calm, put his hand in his pocket and said:</p>
			<p>“Sam, you get funny with me and you won’t get no split at all. Only a horseshoe wreath.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, hell, Sam,” said Joe, “we’re all in it, ain’t we? Come on, split the dough.”</p>
			<p>Vettori sat down. Otero stood a little behind him, watching.</p>
			<p>“Since you want it, Sam,” said Rico, his face pale and drawn, “you’re gonna get it. Listen, you split even, that’s all. Hear me! You get an even split.”</p>
			<p>Vettori said nothing. Joe sat rigid, ready to dive under the table. For months Scabby had been predicting this break; now it had come. Joe feared Vettori and Rico equally, but something told him that Rico would win.</p>
			<p>Vettori let his hands fall on the table.</p>
			<p>“All right, Rico,” he said, “I split even. Sit down and we’ll divvy.”</p>
			<p>But Rico didn’t move.</p>
			<p>“You got a gun on you, Sam?” he asked.</p>
			<p>Vettori looked up at him.</p>
			<p>“Sure I got a gun on me.”</p>
			<p>“Well, don’t try to use it.”</p>
			<p>“No,” said Otero, “don’t try to use it.”</p>
			<p>Vettori’s face went slack. He sat tapping on the table with his fat fingers.</p>
			<p>“Rico,” he said finally, “I split even on the square.”</p>
			<p>Rico’s victory was complete. Joe looked at him with admiration. Sam was a tough bird, but Rico was tougher.</p>
			<p>Vettori got up, walked across the room and stood looking out the window.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
