<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
			<p>Otero lay looking out the window at the electric sign across the Street.</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>Club<br/>
				P<br/>
				a<br/>
				l<br/>
				e<br/>
				r<br/>
				m<br/>
				o</p>
				<p>Dancing</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Snow was falling past the windows. Otero lay smoking a big twenty-five cent cigar and singing softly to himself. He always sang when he was with Seal Skin.</p>
			<p>“Some snow,” said Otero.</p>
			<p>“Yeah, some snow,” said Seal Skin, who was sitting with her feet on the window sill, smoking one of Otero’s cigars.</p>
			<p>“Heavy like cotton,” said Otero.</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” said Seal Skin.</p>
			<p>“Where I used to be it never snowed.”</p>
			<p>“Didn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“No, it never snowed.”</p>
			<p>Seal Skin blew out a cloud of smoke.</p>
			<p>“How come you ever left Mexico, Ramón?”</p>
			<p>“Well, I don’t know.” Otero scratched his head. “I just left.”</p>
			<p>“Was they after you?”</p>
			<p>“No, I just left.”</p>
			<p>Otero got up and put his arms around Seal Skin.</p>
			<p>“Some girl,” he said.</p>
			<p>Seal Skin gave him a push.</p>
			<p>“Wait’ll I finish this.”</p>
			<p>“Sure, sure,” said Otero, smiling and patting her on the shoulder.</p>
			<p>“Look,” said Seal Skin, “you’re a good guy, Ramón. But dumb. How come you hang after Rico?”</p>
			<p>“Rico is a great man.”</p>
			<p>Seal Skin laughed out loud.</p>
			<p>“Yeah? Great, but careless. He’ll never die of old age.”</p>
			<p>Otero didn’t understand.</p>
			<p>“What you say?”</p>
			<p>“They’ll fill him full of lead. He’s too cocky.”</p>
			<p>Otero shook his head.</p>
			<p>“No, they’ll never get Rico.”</p>
			<p>“They get ’em all.”</p>
			<p>“No,” said Otero, “they’ll never get Rico. Once I say to him. ‘Look, you must be careful.’ But he say, ‘Not me, they’ll never get Rico.’ ”</p>
			<p>Seal Skin opened the window and flung her cigar down into the street. A gust of cold air rushed into the overheated room.</p>
			<p>“Listen,” she said, “that’s bunk. Rico’s no different from anybody else. You stick with Rico long enough and you’ll have a swell funeral. Why don’t you get into the beer racket? That’s safe.”</p>
			<p>“I go with Rico,” said Otero. “What do I care? I have no people. Once I had a brother but they shot him.”</p>
			<p>“The cops?”</p>
			<p>“No, the rurales. He was with Villa.”</p>
			<p>“Who the hell’s Villa?”</p>
			<p>“Villa was a great man, like Rico.”</p>
			<p>Seal Skin got up and took a drink from a bottle on the bureau. Then she said:</p>
			<p>“Let’s hit the hay, Ramón.”</p>
			<p>“Sure, sure,” said Otero.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
