<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-4" id="chapter-4-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h2>
			<p>When the meal was over, the Big Boy asked Rico to make a speech. There was a prolonged clamour. Rico got up.</p>
			<p>“All right,” he said, “if you birds want me to make a speech, here you are: I want to thank you guys for this banquet. It sure is swell. The liquor is good, so they tell me, I don’t drink it myself, and the food don’t leave nothing to be desired. I guess we all had a swell time and it sure is good to see all you guys gathered together. Well, I guess that’s about all. Only I wish you guys wouldn’t get drunk and raise hell, as that’s the way a lot of birds get bumped off.”</p>
			<p>Rico sat down. The applause lasted for over a minute. Then Ottavio got up with a bottle in his hand.</p>
			<p>“Here’s to Rico and Blondy and the Big Boy.”</p>
			<p>Everybody shouted and made a grab for bottles and glasses. Blackie Avezzano fell under the table and stayed there, lying on his face. After the toast was drunk, Killer Pepi and Kid Bean began to quarrel. The Kid picked up a plate and struck at Pepi, who threw a bottle at the Kid, missing him by a fraction of an inch.</p>
			<p>Rico banged on the table.</p>
			<p>“Cut it out, you guys. Ain’t that a hell of a way to act?”</p>
			<p>Pepi and the Kid shook hands and another toast was drunk.</p>
			<p>A waiter came in the door and went over to Rico.</p>
			<p>“Couple of newspaper guys, boss. They want to take a flashlight.”</p>
			<p>“What’s the idea?” the Big Boy inquired.</p>
			<p>“Send ’em up,” said Rico.</p>
			<p>“We’re gonna get our mugs shot,” cried Blondy Belle.</p>
			<p>“Maybe we are,” said Rico.</p>
			<p>“What’s the idea?” the Big Boy reiterated.</p>
			<p>“We ain’t got nothing to hide,” said Rico.</p>
			<p>The waiter returned, followed by two newspaper men, one of whom was carrying a big camera. Rico motioned them over.</p>
			<p>“Who sent you?” he asked.</p>
			<p>Sam Vettori came in and went over to Rico.</p>
			<p>“They’re OK, Rico,” he said, “they been here before.”</p>
			<p>“Sure, we’re OK,” said the photographer, a little intimidated by Rico’s manner.</p>
			<p>“Well, spill it,” said Rico, “what’s the idea of the flashlight?”</p>
			<p>“Well, we got a section in the Sunday paper about how different classes of people live in Chicago. See? Last week we featured Lake Forest. Had some pictures of the swells, see, and the dumps where they lived. This Sunday we want Little Italy. We just heard about the banquet they were giving you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rico, so we kinda thought⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“OK,” said Rico, “but make it snappy.”</p>
			<p>“I’m out of this picture,” said the Big Boy, rising and walking over to the doorway. Sam Vettori took his place.</p>
			<p>After manoeuvring about for a few minutes the photographer got the correct slant. He put the powder on the little tray.</p>
			<p>“Now!” he cried.</p>
			<p>Rico sat with his thumbs in the arm-holes of his vest, looking very stern. There was a blinding flash. Ottavio Vettori leapt into the air, and crying “My God, I’m shot” fell face down across the table. Everybody laughed.</p>
			<p>When the newspaper men had gone, the Big Boy came over and put his hand on Rico’s arm.</p>
			<p>“They may pick you up on that.”</p>
			<p>“Who the hell’s gonna see it.”</p>
			<p>“You don’t know who’s gonna see it. That was a bad play, Rico.” Rico laughed.</p>
			<p>“If they pick me up, I’ll alibi them to death.”</p>
			<p>When the banquet was over, Rico had Otero call him a cab. Blondy Belle was a little drunk and Rico had to support her as they went down the stairs. As she weighed about twenty pounds more than he did, this was not an easy job. As they were going out the side-entrance, Flaherty left his table in the club and came over to them.</p>
			<p>He put his hand on Rico’s shoulder.</p>
			<p>“Getting up in the world ain’t you, Rico?”</p>
			<p>Rico looked at him.</p>
			<p>“Don’t you know your old pal Jim Flaherty?”</p>
			<p>“Sure I know you. What’s the big idea?”</p>
			<p>“Go chase yourself around the block, flat-foot,” said Blondy Belle; “if I ain’t getting sick of seeing bulls.”</p>
			<p>“Hello, Blondy,” said Flaherty, “you and Rico hitting it off, eh? That’s the old ticket. Rico’s a good boy, but he’s young. If they don’t put him behind bars, he’ll be a man yet.”</p>
			<p>“What’s the idea, Flaherty?” asked Rico.</p>
			<p>“Why, I don’t want you to forget that I’m your friend,” said Flaherty. “I got my eyes on you, Rico. I like to see a young guy getting up in the world.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah?” said Rico.</p>
			<p>The cab was waiting at the curb and one of the waiters went out and opened the door for them. Rico boosted Blondy Belle into the cab. Flaherty stood in the doorway and watched them drive off.</p>
			<p>“The nerve of that Irish bastard,” said Blondy.</p>
			<p>But Rico had forgotten Flaherty. He sat thinking about Joe Massara. Gentleman Joe was getting too good for them, eh? He was going to turn softie.</p>
			<p>“Well, I guess not,” said Rico.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
