<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
			<p>It was nearly two o’clock when Tony left his woman. A lake wind was blowing hard and the snow fell heavily past the street lights. Tony muffled himself in his overcoat and pulled his cap low. He felt tired and disgusted.</p>
			<p>At the corner near his home, he turned into Sicily Pete’s restaurant. Three Italians were playing cards at a table in the back. Up front a mechanical piano ground out “<span epub:type="se:name.music.song">The Rosary</span>.”</p>
			<p>“Hello, Tony, how’s the boy?” said Pete.</p>
			<p>“Not so good,” said Tony.</p>
			<p>“You ain’t looking any too good, Tony,” said Pete.</p>
			<p>Tony ran his hands over his face and stared at his image in the mirror behind the counter. Pale; circles under his eyes.</p>
			<p>“Well, I guess I’ll live,” said Tony.</p>
			<p>Pete smacked the counter with both hands.</p>
			<p>“Love of God! Sure you’ll live. You be OK tomorrow morning. I know, Tony, my boy. Don’t forget I was a young fellow once. I know. I know.”</p>
			<p>“Sure you know,” said Tony, sarcastic.</p>
			<p>“Sure I do. You think I don’t know about that little red head. Hot stuff, Tony, my boy. Only don’t be a fool. Save some for tomorrow night.”</p>
			<p>Pete laughed shaking all over and smacked the counter with his hands.</p>
			<p>“What the hell’s wrong with you, Pete?” cried one of the card players.</p>
			<p>“Never you mind. All right, Tony, what’ll you have?”</p>
			<p>Tony couldn’t decide. Pete went to wait on one of the card players. The mechanical piano finished “<span epub:type="se:name.music.song">The Rosary</span>” on a discord. Tony went over and put a nickel in the slot.</p>
			<p>“I got a combination to go and two Javas,” said Pete. The mechanical piano began to play “<span epub:type="se:name.music.song">O Sole Mio</span>.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll take a combination,” said Tony, “and a cup of Java.”</p>
			<p>“OK,” said Pete. “I got two combinations, one to go and three on the Java.”</p>
			<p>“How’s business, Pete?” asked Tony.</p>
			<p>“Oh, what you call so-so. Not good, not bad. I never get rich here.”</p>
			<p>“Why don’t you put in a line of bottled goods?” said Tony, smiling.</p>
			<p>Pete raised both hands over his head and brought them down hard on the counter.</p>
			<p>“None of that for Sicily Pete. Oh no. Pete’s too smart for that. If the bulls don’t get you, why, some of them gangsters do. I know. One say, you buy from me; the other say, no, you buy from me. All the same. No matter who you buy from, bango!”</p>
			<p>Pete brought Tony his combination and his coffee, and stood at the counter with him while he ate it.</p>
			<p>“Tony,” said Pete, putting his head on one side, “you know you look like your old man. Other day when you was in here I say to the missus, ‘look, ain’t he just like his old man?’ Well, well. That is good. A boy should look like his old man. That is a good sign.”</p>
			<p>“Knew the old man pretty well, didn’t you, Pete?” said Tony, finishing his coffee.</p>
			<p>“Yes, pretty well. When he was a young fellow he was like you. Full of pep and always after the girls. But I don’t know, your mama she got hold of him, then he wasn’t like he used to be. He wasn’t like the same fellow. Pretty soon he died.”</p>
			<p>Tony laughed.</p>
			<p>“Hard on the old lady, ain’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Love of God, no,” said Pete, an expression of acute misery on his face, “you don’t get me, Tony. I mean he got to be a good fellow, like me. Work, work, that’s all he knew. Well, work is a good thing. It keeps you out of trouble, but I don’t know.”</p>
			<p>Pete wiped the sweat from his forehead and meditated. Tony flipped him a fifty-cent piece. The mechanical piano stopped on a prolonged, slurred discord.</p>
			<p>“Well, I guess I’ll hit for home,” said Tony, “so long, Pete.”</p>
			<p>“Good night, Tony,” said Pete, with one of his blandest smiles, “come in again.”</p>
			<p>The wind struck Tony in the face as he left the restaurant. The streets were white and silent. Tony walked home slowly, tired and disgusted.</p>
			<p>As he entered the flat he saw a dim light in the front room. He tried to sneak into his bedroom, but his mother heard him. She rose from her chair, a monstrous silhouette against the dim front room light.</p>
			<p>“A fine time for you to come in, Antonio,” she said. “Have you been out again with them good-for-nothing loafers?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Tony, in a bad temper.</p>
			<p>“So⁠ ⁠… !” said his mother, “you don’t even lie any more. Well, well! You are doing fine. Pretty soon you won’t come home at all, you bum.”</p>
			<p>“You said a mouthful,” said Tony.</p>
			<p>“Sure, you won’t listen to your mother. Some day you’ll remember what I told you. You loaf with crooks and bums long enough, you’ll see what will happen.”</p>
			<p>“All right,” said Tony, going into his room and banging the door behind him.</p>
			<p>His mother stood in the middle of the room for a minute, then she put out the light and sat in the dark, crying.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
