<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h2>
			<p>Joe handed Rico a sheet of paper full of figures. Rico read: 9331.75.</p>
			<p>“All right,” said Rico, “split it five ways and we’ll make up Scabby’s split between us.”</p>
			<p>Otero sat with his chair tipped back against the wall, smoking a cigarette with his eyes closed. Vettori was playing solitaire and swearing softly to himself.</p>
			<p>Joe looked at his watch.</p>
			<p>“Quarter till. I got to beat it. Say, Sam, call Carillo and let him get me a cab, will you?”</p>
			<p>Sam heaved himself to his feet and called Carillo. In a moment the bouncer put his flattened face in the door.</p>
			<p>“Three dicks downstairs, boss?”</p>
			<p>“Who are they?” asked Vettori.</p>
			<p>“Flaherty and two guys I don’t know, boss. They want to see you.”</p>
			<p>Vettori stood looking at the floor. Carillo jumped in and shut the door.</p>
			<p>“Christ,” he said, “they’re coming up.”</p>
			<p>Rico leapt to his feet, ran across the room and opened a panel in the wall.</p>
			<p>“Come on, Joe,” he said, “you can slip out the back way. Stay where you are, Otero, and go right on smoking. Send Joe’s cab around in the alley, Bat.”</p>
			<p>Vettori looked at Rico.</p>
			<p>“You suppose they know something, Rico?”</p>
			<p>“Not unless they picked Tony up. You don’t know nothing, Sam, see? I’ll be right here listening, and if there’s any trouble, why, it’ll be tough on the dicks.”</p>
			<p>Vettori scooped up the money, wrapped his coat around it, and handed it to Rico. Joe went through the panel, followed by Rico. There was a knock at the door.</p>
			<p>Vettori nodded and Carillo opened the door. Two plain-clothes men stepped in and stood looking around the room. One was tall and burly in a huge ulster; the other was short and very young. They both had their right hands in their overcoat pockets.</p>
			<p>“All right, Carillo,” said Vettori, “go ahead. That’s all.”</p>
			<p>“Wait a minute,” said the burly one, “tell Flaherty we’ll be down in a couple of minutes, for him to wait.”</p>
			<p>“Sure, sure,” said Carillo.</p>
			<p>He went out closing the door softly.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Vettori, “you want to see me?”</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” said the burly one, who did all the talking, “we want to see you, Vettori.”</p>
			<p>“Well, here I am!”</p>
			<p>Otero opened his eyes long enough to look at them, then closed them again and went on smoking.</p>
			<p>“Vettori,” said the detective, “we want some information.”</p>
			<p>“Well?”</p>
			<p>Vettori sat down at the table and began to shuffle the cards. “There’s a big Cadillac draped around a pole a couple of blocks down the street, and we just wondered if you knew anything about it.”</p>
			<p>Vettori began to lay out a game of solitaire.</p>
			<p>“How should I know anything about it? Ain’t it got no licence plates on it?”</p>
			<p>“Sure, but they’re phoney.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah?”</p>
			<p>“Yeah. It was stolen about eight o’clock tonight on the North Side and we got a pretty good description of the guy that stole it.” “Well,” said Vettori, “I got a good business. What the hell’d I be doing stealing automobiles.”</p>
			<p>He laughed and shook his head.</p>
			<p>“Oh, you got me wrong,” said the detective with elaborate innocence. “You see, it’s piled up right straight down the street from here and I thought maybe it was some of the guys from your joint, see? I mean some of the young guys that come here to dance.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Vettori, “how would I know?”</p>
			<p>The detective took out a cigar and began to chew on it.</p>
			<p>“Wasn’t there nobody in it?” asked Otero.</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” said the detective, “one guy. But he beat it.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know nothing about it,” said Vettori.</p>
			<p>“Well, no harm in asking,” said the detective. “Come on, Mike, let’s get going. I guess Vettori don’t know nothing about it.”</p>
			<p>The two of them walked slowly to the door. The big one turned. “Say, Vettori,” he said, “did you hear the news?”</p>
			<p>Vettori looked up.</p>
			<p>“What news?”</p>
			<p>“Why, some bastard bumped Cap. Courtney off over at the Casa Alvarado.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah?” said Vettori, “some guys are sure careless with the lead. That’s a tough break.”</p>
			<p>The young detective opened the door and they started out. “Ain’t it?” said the big one. “Well, so long.”</p>
			<p>As soon as the door closed, Vettori went over and shot the bolt, then peeped out through the shutter. Rico came out of his hiding place.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Vettori, glancing at Rico, “things ain’t going so good.”</p>
			<p>Rico shrugged.</p>
			<p>“They don’t know nothing. Just feeling around. Listen, Sam, where’s your guts? We got to stick together on this.”</p>
			<p>“I know,” said Vettori, falling back into his chair, “but I never seen things break so tough.”</p>
			<p>Rico held out a roll of bills.</p>
			<p>“Here’s your split, Sam.”</p>
			<p>Vettori took the bills and stuffed them into his pocket. Rico handed Otero his. Otero got up and put on his overcoat.</p>
			<p>“I think I go see my woman,” he said.</p>
			<p>When he had gone, Rico went over and sat down beside Vettori.</p>
			<p>“Listen, Sam,” he said, “I been taking orders too long. We’re done. Get the idea? But we got to see this through. We get a break and we’ll come clean. Only we got to shoot straight. See what I mean? I got a rope around my neck right now and they can only hang you once. If anybody gets yellow and squeals, my gun’s gonna speak its piece.”</p>
			<p>“That’s OK with me,” said Sam.</p>
			<p>They sat silent. Downstairs the jazz band was playing and the saxophone was sending vibrations along the floor. Vettori laid out another game of solitaire.</p>
			<p>“Funny for Tony to crash,” he said.</p>
			<p>“He lost his nerve,” said Rico.</p>
			<p>“You suppose he’ll show?”</p>
			<p>“Not till tomorrow if he’s got any sense. I’ll leave his split with you.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
