<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
			<p>The little blonde check-girl helped Joe take off his big ulster, her hand lingering on his arm. He handed her a quarter.</p>
			<p>“Don’t go on a bat with that two-bits,” he said.</p>
			<p>“No, sir,” said the check-girl.</p>
			<p>She watched him walk across the long dance-floor, pick his way among the crowded tables, bowing from time to time to one he had jostled, and disappear through the employees’ door at the back. Then she put checks on his coat and hat and hung them up.</p>
			<p>“God, what a hot-looking man,” she said; “I don’t see how that little hunky got him.”</p>
			<p>Olga Stassoff was just putting the finishing touches to her makeup. Joe came in softly and stood watching her. She began to sing. “If you’re singing for me,” said Joe, “you can stop any time.” Olga turned around.</p>
			<p>“Well, what are you doing here? Broke?”</p>
			<p>“Shut up,” said Joe.</p>
			<p>Then he turned and walked out of the room. Olga jumped to her feet and ran after him. She caught him near the employees’ door. He pushed her away.</p>
			<p>“Ain’t that a fine way to say hello to a guy!” he said. “Why, you must think you got me roped and hog-tied.”</p>
			<p>“I was just kidding, Joe,” said Olga, “honest I didn’t mean it. I was just kidding.”</p>
			<p>“Well, get this,” said Joe, “I’m goddamn sick of that line. What do you take me for? That goes big with some of your swell boyfriends who’ve got ugly wives and ain’t any too particular, but me! I don’t take that kind of talk from nobody.”</p>
			<p>Olga put her arms around him, but he pushed her away.</p>
			<p>“Listen, Joe,” she said, “I got good news for you, so get out of your fighting clothes and come to earth. Can’t you take a little kidding?”</p>
			<p>Joe gave the manager a most ingratiating smile.</p>
			<p>“What’s the big talk, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> DeVoss? Am I missing something?”</p>
			<p>“You sure are,” said DeVoss. “The Stranskys broke their contract and I’m putting you on in their place.”</p>
			<p>Joe leapt into the air and executed a twinkle. Olga burst out laughing.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Joe, “how much?”</p>
			<p>“One hundred to start, Joe, then we’ll see.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Joe, “I can’t buy no limousines with that, but I’ll take it.”</p>
			<p>Joe and DeVoss shook hands.</p>
			<p>“Now,” said the manager, “there’s a girl out here who’s just dying to dance with you, Joe.”</p>
			<p>Joe shook his head.</p>
			<p>“No, I don’t like that stuff. They always think they got to hand you something. What the hell! I don’t want no dame handing me nothing.”</p>
			<p>Olga put her hand over her mouth.</p>
			<p>“Don’t worry about that, Joe,” said DeVoss, “she already asked me about that and I told her you’d be insulted, so she gave me a ten.” DeVoss took a crumpled bill out of his pocket and handed it to Joe. “There, now get this. She’s an up and up girl and she means a lot of business to this place. Her old man’s got a couple of million bucks and she’s the real thing. All right, Joe?”</p>
			<p>“Sure, sure,” said Joe, “always willing to oblige.”</p>
			<p>DeVoss went through the swinging doors and stood waiting for Joe on the other side. Olga took Joe by the arm.</p>
			<p>“Listen,” she said, “none of your funny business now. Just do your stuff and leave it at that. I’m on to these society women. I know what they want.”</p>
			<p>Joe leapt into the air and executed another twinkle.</p>
			<p>“Alley up!” he cried, “don’t you trust me, baby?”</p>
			<p>Olga put her hands on her hips and began to laugh. How could you be sore at a guy like that?</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
