<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-6" id="chapter-6-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
			<p>Olga was only partly dressed when Joe burst in on her. She looked at him, startled.</p>
			<p>“My Lord,” she said, “what makes you so pale, Joe?”</p>
			<p>“Got any liquor?” demanded Joe.</p>
			<p>Olga opened a drawer and handed him a flask. He tipped it up and took a long pull, then he stood with the flask in his hand staring at the wall.</p>
			<p>“Joe,” Olga insisted, “what’s wrong with you?”</p>
			<p>Joe came to himself, screwed the top on the flask, and handed it back to Olga.</p>
			<p>“Boy, I got a shock,” said Joe.</p>
			<p>Olga came over and put her arms around him.</p>
			<p>“Tell Olga all about it.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Joe, “I was finishing up my Pierrot dance, see, and you know when it’s dark and they got the spot on you you can’t see nothing. Well, I was circling the outside of the floor like I do before I take that last leap, when some dame at a corner table gives a yell, a hell of a yell. Sibby hears the yell and switches on all the lights and here I am, right in front of a dame that looks like she’s off her nut. She was standing up and she had her hands on the table and she was staring right at me. If I didn’t feel funny, boy! Well, there was a guy with her and he kept asking her what was the matter, but she wouldn’t say nothing. I thought she was gonna jump right on me, she looked so funny, yeah, that dame sure looked funny.”</p>
			<p>Joe paused and meditated. Olga laughed.</p>
			<p>“Listen,” she said, “you better lay off the liquor.”</p>
			<p>“No, straight,” said Joe, “you know I kind of got the idea she recognized me or something, but, hell, I never seen her before. She’s an old dame, about forty, and she’s got peroxide hair. There was a guy with her, a nice looking guy, and he kept saying, ‘What’s the matter, Nell, what’s the matter, Nell, what’s the matter, Nell?’ But he couldn’t get nothing out of her.”</p>
			<p>Olga laughed again.</p>
			<p>“Well, this ain’t nothing to write home about,” she said. “I thought I was gonna get a thrill. We better change bootleggers, Joe.”</p>
			<p>“Aw, lay off,” said Joe. “I’m telling you, you’d’ve got all the kick you’re looking for if you’d heard that dame yell.”</p>
			<p>“Well, what happened?” demanded Olga, who was getting impatient.</p>
			<p>Joe got the flask and took another pull at it before he answered her. The colour had come back into his face now and he felt much better.</p>
			<p>“Soon as the boss found out there was something wrong he came in and asked this dame if he could do anything for her. And she says, ‘Yes, get me a taxi.’ The guy with her says, ‘What the devil, Nell.’ And she says, ‘I want to go home.’ So they went out. Boy, the way that dame looked at me, like I was, God, I don’t know what!”</p>
			<p>“Say, listen,” said Olga, “you been hitting the pipe?”</p>
			<p>“Aw, lay off,” said Joe; “that dame’s got something on her mind, see. She’s got something on her mind.”</p>
			<p>Someone knocked. Olga called “come in” and a waiter opened the door and bowed.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Willoughby wants to know if we can bring the table in now, Miss Stassoff.”</p>
			<p>“Sure,” said Olga, “bring it in.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, ma’am,” said the waiter. Then he cupped his hands and called down the corridor: “<i xml:lang="fr">Allez!</i>”</p>
			<p>Joe lay down on the lounge and lit a cigarette. Olga went over to her dressing-table, made up her face, and put on her Japanese kimono.</p>
			<p>Two waiters came in carrying a table; a third followed with a cloth and silver. When the table was set, one of the waiters said:</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Willoughby wants to know if he can come back now.”</p>
			<p>“Sure,” said Olga, “tell him to come right back.”</p>
			<p>“Shall we start to serve?”</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” said Olga, “right away.”</p>
			<p>When the waiters had gone, Joe said:</p>
			<p>“I’m getting fed up with this Willoughby guy. He’s a dumb egg.”</p>
			<p>“Sure he’s dumb,” said Olga, “but I don’t hold that against him. What I like about the bird is that he don’t get his hand stuck in his pocket when the boy comes around with the bill.”</p>
			<p>“He sure don’t, that’s a fact,” said Joe, laughing.</p>
			<p>“Well, then don’t be so particular,” said Olga; “guys like him are few and far between.”</p>
			<p>Willoughby tapped lightly on the door and then came in. He was freshly shaven and he looked chubby and boyish.</p>
			<p>Joe got up and shook hands with him. Olga said:</p>
			<p>“Was you out front?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Willoughby; “by the way, Joe, what was all the commotion?”</p>
			<p>“See,” said Joe, turning to Olga. “She thought I was making it up, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Willoughby.”</p>
			<p>“No, he wasn’t making it up,” said Willoughby, serious. “I never heard such a scream in my life.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t remind me,” said Joe; “boy, my hair stood straight up.”</p>
			<p>A waiter came in carrying a wine bucket, followed by another waiter carrying the soup.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Willoughby, “shall we monjay, as they say in France?”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Oui, Monsieur</i>,” said Olga.</p>
			<p>“Sure,” said Joe, “I’m ready for the feedbag in any language.”</p>
			<p>They sat down. One of the waiters poured the wine. Willoughby held his glass up to the light.</p>
			<p>“I hope you like this stuff,” he said, “it’s out of my own cellar.”</p>
			<p>“I’d like to sleep in that cellar,” said Olga.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Willoughby, “you have a standing invitation.”</p>
			<p>They ate in silence for a moment, then Joe said:</p>
			<p>“Say, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Willoughby, what you suppose was the matter with that dame?”</p>
			<p>“I couldn’t say.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, forget it, Joe,” said Olga, “she was probably full of hop.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
