<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
			<p>Tony hadn’t slept all night. He lay in the cold dark room, sweating. The covers felt as heavy as lead and from time to time he tossed them off, only to pull them over him again as the lake wind, streaming in the window, made him shiver. At intervals he would fall into a doze. Then he would see a windy street, feel a car skidding under him, feel a sickening jolt. He would wake with a start and sit up in bed.</p>
			<p>“They’ll get us for this,” he kept repeating, “they’ll get us sure.”</p>
			<p>Tony smoked cigarette after cigarette. In his despair he cast about for someone to put the blame on. It was all Midge’s fault. Wasn’t she always after him to make more jack so she could put on the dog? Hadn’t he tried to go straight and drive a taxi and make an honest living? Yeah, and hadn’t Sam Vettori and Rico offered him money to quit his job and give them a lift on their stickups? Well, you couldn’t quit a gang; once you were in, you were in!</p>
			<p>Tony sat up in bed and looked out across the roofs outside his window. The sun was coming up and a cold, windy winter morning was dawning. Suddenly, he began to feel sick at his stomach. He lay down, but that didn’t help him, then he tossed from side to side.</p>
			<p>Tony had to vomit. He jumped out of bed and ran for the bathroom. When he came out his mother was lighting the stove. She acted as if she didn’t see him. He went back to his room but stopped in the doorway.</p>
			<p>“Hello, mom,” he said.</p>
			<p>His mother paid no attention.</p>
			<p>“Say,” said Tony, “what’s the matter?”</p>
			<p>His mother turned and with her hands on her hips stared at him.</p>
			<p>“Go back to bed, you loafer,” she said, “I am sick of you. You are no good on earth. Just like your father.”</p>
			<p>“Aw, mom,” said Tony.</p>
			<p>“Don’t try to salve me,” said Tony’s mother. “You go back to bed and get sober. You think I don’t know nothing, don’t you? Just like your father.”</p>
			<p>“I’m not drunk,” said Tony, “I’m sick.”</p>
			<p>His mother turned her back and went on with her cooking. Tony went into his room, slammed the door, and got back into bed. A deadly depression settled on him. The world looked black.</p>
			<p>He heard his mother go out, then he got up, dressed and made himself some toast and coffee. Anyway, he wanted his split.</p>
			<p>On the way to Vettori’s he met Father McConagha. The priest was a big man with a big, pale face. He walked with a rolling gait and there was something arrogant about him. Tony took off his hat.</p>
			<p>“Good morning, Father.”</p>
			<p>“Good morning, Antonio,” said Father McConagha. “Where have you been, my boy? I haven’t seen you for months.”</p>
			<p>“I been working,” said Tony.</p>
			<p>“What sort of work?” asked Father McConagha, putting his hand on Tony’s shoulder.</p>
			<p>“I been driving a taxi.”</p>
			<p>The priest nodded his head slowly.</p>
			<p>“That is good work, Antonio.”</p>
			<p>Tony couldn’t look at Father McConagha and kept twisting his hat in his hands and staring at it. Father McConagha talked to him for a minute or two about the rewards of honesty and the happiness to be derived from doing your work faithfully, then he said:</p>
			<p>“Antonio, one day your father asked me to look out for you. Your father was a good man, but weak. Remember this, Antonio, if you are ever in any trouble I am the one to come to.”</p>
			<p>Tony flushed and said:</p>
			<p>“Thank you, Father.”</p>
			<p>When Father McConagha had gone, Tony began to speculate. Did he know anything? Why, on this very morning, had he said something about being in trouble? Tony respected and admired Father McConagha. He felt that he could always turn to him.</p>
			<p>Talking with the priest had made him feel stronger, but now that the priest had gone all the hopelessness of the night before rushed back on him. He took out a cigarette and lit it with shaking hands.</p>
			<p>“They’ll get us sure for this,” he said.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
