<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-3" id="chapter-3-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2>
			<p>Vettori stared at Rico, who said nothing.</p>
			<p>“Crazy! Crazy!” said Blackie. “I tell him, be a man, be a man. But he say, I got to, I got to.”</p>
			<p>Rico hastily put on his overcoat. “Well, I guess that’s it,” said Sam Vettori.</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” said Rico, “that’s it. Now get yourself a can, Sam, and let’s go. We ain’t got any time to waste.”</p>
			<p>Vettori rubbed both hands over his face.</p>
			<p>“Not me,” he said.</p>
			<p>Rico looked at him.</p>
			<p>“Take Blackie,” said Vettori.</p>
			<p>Blackie implored them with his eyes.</p>
			<p>“Blackie’s no good,” said Rico.</p>
			<p>“No,” said Blackie, “I no good.”</p>
			<p>Carillo put his head in the door.</p>
			<p>“Reilley’s downstairs, boss.”</p>
			<p>“Take Carillo,” said Vettori.</p>
			<p>Carillo stared at them suspiciously. Rico leapt across the room and grabbed him by the arm.</p>
			<p>“Listen, Bat, can you drive a can?”</p>
			<p>“Sure.”</p>
			<p>“Will you let her out when I office you?”</p>
			<p>“Sure.”</p>
			<p>“All right, let’s go.”</p>
			<p>“Take that black roadster, Carillo,” said Vettori, “but for God’s sake don’t smash it up.”</p>
			<p>Carillo ran out leaving the door open. Rico walked over and closed the door, then he said:</p>
			<p>“Sam, you ain’t got any more guts than Tony. Now listen, get down there and talk turkey to Reilley. Get that! By God, I guess I got to boss this job myself.”</p>
			<p>Vettori looked at Rico with hatred. But he said:</p>
			<p>“All right, Rico, you’re the boss now.”</p>
			<p>Rico went out. Blackie said:</p>
			<p>“Goodbye Tony!”</p>
			<p>Carillo was waiting with the black roadster in the alleyway. Rico jumped in and the roadster leapt away. Carillo took a turn on two wheels.</p>
			<p>“It’s a cinch he went the shortest cut,” said Rico.</p>
			<p>“Sure,” said Carillo, “I know what I’m doing.”</p>
			<p>“All right,” said Rico, “do it.”</p>
			<p>The wind had risen and it began to snow, big, heavy flakes which sailed past the street lights. In a few minutes the ground was covered.</p>
			<p>Carillo took the shortest cut and Rico, holding his big automatic on the seat beside him, sat straining his eyes. But there was no sign of Tony.</p>
			<p>“If we miss him, I’ll kick hell out of Blackie,” said Rico.</p>
			<p>“Keep your shirt on, boss,” said Carillo.</p>
			<p>The tall spires of St. Dominick’s rose before them at the end of the block. The street was deserted. Carillo drove slowly now, hugging the curb. In a moment he pointed:</p>
			<p>“There’s a guy.”</p>
			<p>Rico leaned forward.</p>
			<p>“Take it easy, Bat,” he said, “I think it’s Tony.”</p>
			<p>“Tony,” called Rico.</p>
			<p>“Yeah?” came Tony’s voice. “Who is it?”</p>
			<p>Rico fired. A long spur of flame shot out in the darkness. Rico emptied his gun. Tony fell without a sound.</p>
			<p>“All right now, Bat,” said Rico, “let her out.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
