<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-6" id="chapter-6-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
			<p>Ma Magdalena let him in at the alley door.</p>
			<p>“Well, Rico,” she said; “got yourself in a nice fix, didn’t you?”</p>
			<p>Rico grinned.</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” he said, “who told you?”</p>
			<p>“The bulls were here and searched the place.”</p>
			<p>“Didn’t find the hideout, did they?”</p>
			<p>Ma Magdalena laughed.</p>
			<p>“What a chance!”</p>
			<p>Rico followed Ma down into the basement. She led him through a short tunnel and back into the hideout. A small, round opening just large enough to admit one person had been pierced in a heavy stone wall. In front of the wall rows of pine shelves had been built, and these were filled with canned goods. The section of the shelves which hid the opening was hinged and could be swung open.</p>
			<p>Rico followed Ma through the opening and came out into a little room with a cot in one corner, a table, and one chair. Rico took off his hat and sat down.</p>
			<p>“They got The Greek,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Yeah?” said Ma.</p>
			<p>Rico took out a cigar and lit it.</p>
			<p>“Listen,” he said, “I want to stay here a couple of days. Then I’m gonna pull out. Get me some magazines and keep me posted.”</p>
			<p>“All right,” said Ma, “but it’s gonna cost you, because I’m taking chances, see, I’m taking big chances.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Rico, “you got my roll, help yourself.”</p>
			<p>Ma Magdalena smiled broadly.</p>
			<p>“That’s the talk, Rico. Old Ma’ll sure take care of you.”</p>
			<p>“OK,” said Rico; “now, get this: in two days I want a car.”</p>
			<p>“Arrigo’s got a car. If we go hooking one, it might spoil your getaway.”</p>
			<p>“That’s good,” said Rico; “all right, I want a jumper suit, you know, one of them suits like a garage mechanic wears, and a razor.”</p>
			<p>“All right,” said Ma Magdalena.</p>
			<p>When she had gone, Rico took off his coat and shoes, and lay down on the cot. His nerves were jumpy and he couldn’t seem to get settled. He flung his cigar away and turned his face to the wall. “Just when I thought things was on the up and up,” he said.</p>
			<p>Rico felt resentful, but his resentment was not directed at any specific group or person; it was vague as yet. He turned from side to side on his cot, then he gave it up.</p>
			<p>Ma Magdalena came back with a big mug of coffee and a couple of papers. Rico sat down at the table.</p>
			<p>“They got Sam,” said Ma.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Rico, “that’s hips for Sam.”</p>
			<p>Rico took the papers from her and glanced at the headlines.</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>Gentleman Joe Wilts</p>
				<p>Gang chief named as slayer</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Ma Magdalena went out. Rico sat reading the paper and sipping his coffee.</p>
			<bockquote>
				<p>Gentleman Joe Massara looks more like a movie actor than a gunman. When arrested he was wearing an expensive tuxedo and the rings that were taken from him are valued at $3,000.</p>
			</bockquote>
			<p>“To hell with that,” said Rico.</p>
			<p>He read on:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>Cesare Bandello, known as Rico, the Vettori gang chief, was named as the actual slayer of Courtney.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Yeah,” said Rico, “and I’m the only one they ain’t gonna get.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
